iOS content for Google Authenticator (#3148)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/authenticators-google-authenticator/main/ios/enrollmentintegrationsteps.md

>**Note:** The examples in this guide use Swift 5, SwiftUI, and a target of iOS 15 or later. The SwiftUI portions pass state information using multiple bindings, consider using more robust ways of sharing and updating data in production apps. For more information, see the [Apple developer documentation for state and data flow in SwiftUI](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/state-and-data-flow/).

> The code in this guide manages the sign-on flow using a singleton class (`SignInController`). The class handles asynchronous responses from the SDK by implementing the delegate functions of the `IDXClientDelegate` protocol. The SDK also provides completion handlers and Swift Concurrency (`async/await`).

Author: That's a great question to which I don't know the answer. I went back and forth with trying it as it's own note, incorporated into the previous note, the way it ended up, and even having that information in different places. The reality is that both the Note and that paragraph don't belong in this section. They belong in a place that gives information pertinent to all iOS code in the Guide... but no such place exists.

The combined note looked far too long and was hard to read, even when I put that part that's text above in a separate paragraph of the note. Two notes also looks odd and has the danger of being glossed over because it's so light.

I did it this way because the first note refers to conditions that are important and independent specific implementation details (equivalent to version of .Net and target OS.) In some ways the second part of that note on sharing information almost doesn't belong The second paragraph is about the how of the code.

It may be that only the information through "iOS 15 and later" should be note:

>**Note:** The examples in this guide use Swift 5, SwiftUI, and a target of iOS 15 or later.

The code in this guide manages the sign-on flow using a singleton class (`SignInController`). The class handles asynchronous responses from the SDK by implementing the delegate functions of the `IDXClientDelegate` protocol. The SDK also provides completion handlers and Swift Concurrency (`async/await`).

The SwiftUI portions pass state information using multiple bindings, consider using more robust ways of sharing and updating data in production apps. For more information, see the [Apple developer documentation for state and data flow in SwiftUI](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/state-and-data-flow/).

> The code in this guide manages the sign-on flow using a singleton class (`SignInController`). The class handles asynchronous responses from the SDK by implementing the delegate functions of the `IDXClientDelegate` protocol. The SDK also provides completion handlers and Swift Concurrency (`async/await`).

Author: I've made changes that reflect the shorter note.

> The code in this guide manages the sign-on flow using a singleton class (`SignInController`). The class handles asynchronous responses from the SDK by implementing the delegate functions of the `IDXClientDelegate` protocol. The SDK also provides completion handlers and Swift Concurrency (`async/await`).

Reviewer: nice. That's consistent now with all code specifics outside of the note

### 1: Display the initial sign-in UI

Enable the user to start the sign-in flow, such as presenting a Sign In button or a form with fields for a username and password (you won't use those values until step 3 when you [authenticate the user credentials](#_3-authenticate-the-user-credentials)).

### 2: Start the sign-on flow

Initialize the SDK client and request the initial server response after the user starts the sign-in process.

This code also sets the caller as the delegate for asynchronous callbacks from the SDK:

```swift
// Initialize the SDK client using a Configuration object loaded previously.
IDXClient.start(with: configuration) { (client, error) in
    guard let client = client else {
		self.finish(with: error)
		return
	}

	self.client = client

    // Set this object as the delegate for asynchronous calls.
	client.delegate = self

	// Request the first response from the Okta org.
	client.resume()
}
```

> The `configuration` (`IDXClient.IDXClientConfiguration`) parameter in the call to `IDX.start(with:)` contains the configuration information for your Okta org, and is usually initialized from an `Okta.plist` file. The call to `client.resume()` requests the first response of the sign-sequence.

Author: I updated the text with a slight modification based on the Apple convention for denoting an API: `IDX.start(with:)` instead of `IDX.start()`... the latter is a call that takes no arguments.

> The `configuration` (`IDXClient.IDXClientConfiguration`) parameter in the call to `IDX.start(with:)` contains the configuration information for your Okta org, and is usually initialized from an `Okta.plist` file. The call to `client.resume()` requests the first response of the sign-sequence.

Reviewer: np. I was unaware of the apple convention for denoting an API.

### 3: Authenticate the user credentials

The SDK uses a `Response` object to represent the server request for the current sign-on step. It contains a collection of remediations (`Remedation`) that specify the type of step, any general messages, and a nested collection of forms (`Remedation.Form`) containing fields (`Remedation.Form.Field`) that represent the various elements of the UI, such as an entry field with a label. Completing a step usually requires setting the value of one or more fields. The remediation is then sent back to the server with the updated values by calling `proceed()`. The server processes the values and then sends the next step.

> The kind of sign-on step is represented by the `type` property of the remediation. In this step the server is requesting the username and password, an `.identify` remediation type.

Author: I agree with all but the recommendation for the first sentence. A good catch that .identify is the subject of the second sentence.

For the first one, the sentence is about the kind of sign-on rather, so that would make it the subject. For active voice the subject comes first. Similarly, from a flow/story perspective, the reader has the understanding of "sign-on step" at this point, but not it's representation. This structure connects those two concepts together starting with the one that's already top-of-mind for the reader (which also is how things work at a neuronal level, but that's a different story ;-)). Putting type first is likely to require the reader to go through the sentence at least twice.

How about:

> The kind of sign-on step is represented by the `type` property of the remediation. In this step, the remediation type `.identify` indicates the server's requesting the user's name and password.

> The kind of sign-on step is represented by the `type` property of the remediation. In this step the server is requesting the username and password, an `.identify` remediation type.

Reviewer: That's fine. I was trying to make the verbactive rather than passive - something that Susan is pretty hot on.

> This code shows the singleton delegate function that handles the an SDK response indicating a next step and includes all the types of remediations that are part of a Google Authenticator flow:

Author: Nice catch of a crash paragraph. How about:

> The SDK calls the `idx(client: response:)` delegate function with the server response that specifies the next step. This code uses a `switch` statement to handle the different types of remediation that are part of a Google Authenticator enrollment flow:

> This code shows the singleton delegate function that handles the an SDK response indicating a next step and includes all the types of remediations that are part of a Google Authenticator flow:

Reviewer: TOns better. Nice one :-)

> This code shows the singleton delegate function that handles the an SDK response indicating a next step and includes all the types of remediations that are part of a Google Authenticator flow:

Reviewer: You haven't actually updated this text yet.

> This code shows the singleton delegate function that handles the an SDK response indicating a next step and includes all the types of remediations that are part of a Google Authenticator flow:

Author: I didn't update because I was waiting for a "this looks good" ;-).

I also slightly modified the text which will show up shortly

> The SDK calls the `idx(client: response:)` delegate function with the server response that specifies the next step. This code first checks for a successful sign-on and for other conditions, and then uses a `switch` statement to handle the different types of remediation that are part of a Google Authenticator enrollment flow:

    case .identify:
        handleIdentify(remediation)

        // Request a password or a passcode, such as one from Google Authenticator.
        // Identity-first policies request the password separately.
    case .challengeAuthenticator:
        handleChallenge(remediation)

        // Display a list of authenticators.
    case .selectAuthenticatorEnroll:
        handleSelectAuthenticatorToEnroll(remediation)

    // Enroll in an Authenticator
    case .enrollAuthenticator:
        handleEnrollAuthenticator(remediation)

    default:
        // Handle the case of an unrecognized step.
        // Note, there are several more types of remediations.
    }
}
```

The `handleIdentify(remediation:)` function updates the username and password fields in the remediation, and then calls `remediation.proceed()` which both sends the updated remediation to the server and requests the next step.

```swift
func handleIdentify(_ remediation: Remediation) {
    // Update the values in the remediation object and go to the next step.
    remediation["identifier"]?.value = username
    remediation["credentials.passcode"]?.value = password
    remediation.proceed()
}
```

> Some types of policies ask for the passsword in a separate step using a `.challengeAuthenticator` remediation type. The `handleChallege(remediation:)` function sets the password and calls `proceed()`:

Author: - Correction made to "password"
- As to why this is here, it's a possible part of both the Enrollment and Challenge flows. In this case it's a challenge for the password not the TOTP code.

> Some types of policies ask for the passsword in a separate step using a `.challengeAuthenticator` remediation type. The `handleChallege(remediation:)` function sets the password and calls `proceed()`:

Reviewer: That's fine then

```swift
// Sometimes the password is requested in a separate step.
func handleChallenge(_ remediation: Remediation) {
    guard let authenticator = remediation.authenticators.first else {
        finish(with: .unexpectedAuthenticator)
        return
    }

    let type = authenticator.type
    switch type {
    case .password:
        remediation["credentials.passcode"]?.value = password
        remediation.proceed()

    default:
        // Handle the case of an unknown authenticator.
        return
    }
}

```

>**Note:** The response from the server specifies either the next step, an error, or a
message, such as an incorrect code. The code that handles the response may need to show
different UI, depending on the step. The `IDXClientDelegate` protocol includes two other functions: `idx(client:didReceive<Token>:)` handles receiving a sign-in token, and   `idx(client:didReceive<Error>:)` handles errors.

> 

Reviewer: Your note has some spurious line breaks in it. Can you delete them please?

Author: Nice Catch. Done.

### 4: Display a list of possible authenticator factors

After verifying the username and password, the server sends a remediation of type `.selectAuthenticatorEnroll` that contains the possible authenticators. The list of choices are in the `options` property of a field with `name` set to `"authenticator"` in the remediation `forms` property.

The display name of an authenticator is in the `label` property of the field. Use this name to build your selection UI. For an example of using `label`, see the code that displays the the `Picker` in the code for `AuthenticatorSelectionView` later in this step.

> 

Reviewer: I'd love to see a screenshot of this here.

```swift
typealias AuthenticatorOptions = (optionSelectorField: Remediation.Form.Field,
                                  optionFields: [Remediation.Form.Field],
                                  selectedField: Remediation.Form.Field?)

func authenticatorOptions() -> AuthenticatorOptions? {
    guard let fields = currentRemediation?.form.fields,
          let selectorField = fields.filter({ $0.name == "authenticator"}).first,
          let options = selectorField.options,
          options.count > 0 else {
              return nil
          }
    return (selectorField, options, selectorField.selectedOption)
}

```

The function that handles the remediation type checks that there's at least one option:

```swift
func handleSelectAuthenticatorToEnroll(_ remediation: Remediation) {
    guard let optionsInfo = authenticatorOptions(),
          optionsInfo.optionFields.count > 0 else {
              finish(with: .unexpectedAuthenticator)
              return
          }

    // Tell the caller to present a UI for choosing an authenticator.
}
```

Display a UI for selecting an authenticator, or if there no options or some other issue,

> present an error.

Reviewer: Is this a note to yourself? Is this the next step? 
The text just jumps to here without context. Can you add a sentence or a phrase in to smooth it out or make this a heading please?

Author: Good catch. How about:

> Use the information returned by these utility functions to populate a UI for selecting an authenticator.If there no options or some other issue, present an error.

Reviewer: That's fine. Thanks

Reviewer: You're missing an "are"
If there ARE no options

Author: fixed

            message = nil
            switch result {
            case .success(let result):
                if let token = result.token {
                    // Succesful sign in
                    signedIn = true
                    showingSignIn = false
                } else if let message = result.message {
                    // Show a message on this form.
                    self.message = message.message
                } else {
                    // Handle moving to a new type of form.
                    currentState = SignInController.shared!.currentRemediation!.type
                }

            case .failure(let error):
                // Handle the error
            }
        }

        let signInController = SignInController.shared?
        if skip {
            // Call a utility function for skipping the selection step.
            signInController.skipAuthenticatorSelection(completion: completion)
        } else {
            // Select an authentictor and request the next step.
            signInController.selectAuthenticator(authenticator: selectedOption,
                                                 completion: completion)
        }
    }
}

```

> The UI updates the sign-on controller with the selected authenticator by calling `selectAuthenticator(authenticator:completion)`, or `skipAuthenticatorSelection(completion:)` if the user chose to skip enrolling in additional authenticators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI updates the sign-on controller with the selected authenticator by calling `selectAuthenticator(authenticator:completion)`, or `skipAuthenticatorSelection(completion:)` if the user chooses to skip enrolling in additional authenticators.
```

Author: Changes made.

        // Handle the error
        return
    }

    // Request the next step.
    skipRemediation.proceed()
}

public func selectAuthenticator(authenticator: Remediation.Form.Field?, completion:@escaping (Result<SuccessResultType, LoginError>) -> Void) {
    // Set the selected authenticator.
    self.completion = completion

    guard let selectorFields = authenticatorOptions() else {
              self.finish(with: .cannotProceed)
              return
          }

    // Update the remediation and send it to the server,
    // requesting the next step.
    selectorFields.optionSelectorField.selectedOption = authenticator
    currentRemediation!.proceed()
}
```

### 5: Display the shared secret, QR Code, and request the code

After selecting the authenticator, the server sends an enrollment request in a remediation of type `.enrollAuthenticator`. Enrolling uses a secret key shared between Okta and Google Authenticator that's used to generate and verify the generated time-based one-time passcodes (TOTP).

The remediation includes the shared secret as both a QR Code and as text. It also includes a request to enter a Google Authenticator code after enrollment.

> The sign-on controller code for `handleEnrollAuthenticator(remdiation:)` works for many different authenticators because the `form` property of the remediation contains the information required to build the UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sign-on controller code for `handleEnrollAuthenticator(remediation:)` works for many different authenticators because the `form` property of the remediation contains the information required to build the UI:
```

Also, perhaps this is worth emphasizing and putting it in a note. It's not text that's specific to the Google Auth guide.

Author: Fixed in text, code snippet, and source.

As to the note I'm not sure it's useful. There's plenty of Okta specific app code that's repeated in multiple flows, such as everything in steps 1 and 2.

Is there a reason to add the Note?

Reviewer: Probably not. Just a thought.

```swift
func handleEnrollAuthenticator(_ remdiation: Remediation) {
    // Tell the caller to present a UI for enrolling in Google Authenticator.

}
```

The collection of authenticators related to the current request are in the `authenticators` property of the remediation. Each one is an instance of the `Authenticator` class which includes an identifier in the `key` property and a name for display in the UI in the `displayName` property.

> Authenticators may include one or more capabilities that describe associated data and behaviors, such as the QR Code or the ability to send a code. This includes

Reviewer: Delete "This includes" or complete the sentence.

Author: Nice catch... deleted. That was part of a previous version as I worked through how to phrase things.

Reviewer: nice

This utility function finds the Google Authenticator (`key` set to `"google_otp"`), and then loads an image for the QR Code and the shared secret:

```swift
// The information for constructing a UI for enrollment.
typealias AuthenticatorEnrollment = (name: String?,
                                     qrCode: UIImage?,
                                     sharedSecret: String?)

func authenticatorEnrollment() -> AuthenticatorEnrollment? {
        guard let remediation = currentRemediation,
              let authenticator = remediation.authenticators.filter({ $0.key == "google_otp"}).first,
              let capability = authenticator.capabilities.filter({$0 is Capability.OTP}).first as? Capability.OTP,
              let qrCode = capability.image,
              let sharedSecret = capability.sharedSecret else {
                  return nil
              }

        return (authenticator.displayName, qrCode, sharedSecret)
    }
```

> The model and view information for the one-time code entry field are nested in the forms of the remediation. First find a field with the `name` property set to `"credentials"` in the `form` property of the remediation. Then in the `form` property of that field, find the field with the `name` set to `"passcode"`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model and view information for the OTP field are nested in the forms of the remediation. First find a field with the `name` property set to `"credentials"` in the `form` property of the remediation. Then in the `form` property of that field, find the field with the `name` set to `"passcode"`:
```

Author: fixed

```swift
typealias AuthenticatorCode = (codeField: Remediation.Form.Field,
                               entryField: Remediation.Form.Field)

    func authenticatorCodeField() -> AuthenticatorCode? {
    guard let codeField = currentRemediation?["credentials"],
          let entryField = currentRemediation?["credentials.passcode"] else {
              return nil
          }
        return (codeField, entryField)
    }

```

> Set the `value` property of the  entry field, the one with a name `"passcode"` to the code entered by the user, and then submit the remediation to continue to the next step. This is the utility function from the sign-on manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `value` property of the  entry field, the one with a name `"passcode"` to the OTP entered by the user, and then submit the remediation to continue to the next step. This is the utility function from the sign-on manager:
```

Author: I modified per above and added a definition of OTP elsewhere (per the style guide on Acronyms and abbreviations). I know that TOTP was defined earlier in the guide, but it seems that they are two different acronyms, even though the OTP part is the same (but can we be sure the developer knows this.) I defined the acronym in the paragraph on roughly line 351 starting "Authenticators may include..." I modified the end of the first sentence to:

> or the ability to send a one-time passcode (OTP).

Author: I also updated the other occurrences where "code" was used instead of OTP. It begs the question of modifying the source examples as well.

Reviewer: As long as we are consistent in the guide, I think that's key. Occasionally the SDK \ Samples still use things like Log In and "code" vs "otp" is another one of those inconsistencies. I'm not sure when an OTP is Time-based or not. I think they always are, but sometimes they are more apparently so during challenge flows as they keep changing in the authenticator apps but not so much when used for enrollment such as with GoogleAuth. Which is why I suggest OTP rather than TOTP if you're curious.

Author: FYI, I agree with using OTP... Google Authenticator is a TOTP, so the OTP is time-based, but there [are other types](https://www.protectimus.com/blog/otp-generation-algorithms-and-token-types/).

Author: I think this one is closed right?

Reviewer: yup. Closed

```swift
public func authenticateWithCode(code: String?, completion:@escaping (Result<SuccessResultType, LoginError>) -> Void) {
    self.completion = completion

    guard let codeFields = authenticatorCodeFields() else {
              self.finish(with: .cannotProceed)
              return
          }

    codeFields.entryField.value = code

    currentRemediation!.proceed()
}
```

> The following form displays the QR Code, secret key, and a form for entering the one-time code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following form displays the QR Code, secret key, and a form for entering the OTP:
```

Author: Text changed

                    showingSignIn = false
                }
            }

        }
        .onAppear() {
            if let signInController = SignInController.shared {
                enrollData = signInController.authenticatorEnrollment()
                codeData = signInController.authenticatorCodeFields()
            }
        }
    }

    func skip() {
        print("SKIP")

    }

    func continueSignin() {
        print("Continue")
        SignInController.shared?.authenticateWithCode(code: code) {result in
             isWaiting = false
            switch result {
            case .success(let result):
                isWaiting = false
                    // Succesful sign in
                    signedIn = true
                    showingSignIn = false
                } else if let message = result.message {
                    // Show a message on this form.
                    self.message = message.message
                } else {
                    currentState = SignInController.shared!.currentRemediation!.type
                }

            case .failure(let error):
                // Handle the error
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Again, I'd love to see a screenshot of this here.

Author: What screenshot (or shots): The enroll authenticator form before it's filled out? The same but with fake values? Something else? What about the screen for choosing an authenticator?

Reviewer: The code immediately above is for the form displaying the QR Code, secret key, and spaces for entering the one-time code, so that's what I would like to see. Possibly that could be a mock up as we've discussed previously with Rob, but to save time jsut a straight screenshot of the form would do. Doesn't need fake values added into the form. But something matching the screenshot I've got in mine.

Author: Added text and an image. It will show up in the next commit.

There are three possible results after sending the code to the server:

- Sending the correct code signs the user in.
- Sending an incorrect code results in another `.enrollAuthenticator` response with a message indicating that the code doesn't match. The UI code handles that case by displaying a form that includes the message.
- An error, such as a disconnected server.

> 

Reviewer: It feels like this just stops here. 
Perhaps show how to retrieve the User's OIDC claims from the server when the user has successfully signed in?

Reviewer: I disagree about this being up to the skeleton of the article as a whole. 
The end of the flow is having the user be successfuly authenticated so if you were going to do something in the article post-successful login, it would be in the stack selector. 

Pulling in the claims is only three lines of code in C# so I've included them. If it's a lot more in Swift, maybe it's easier to exclude it.

Author: Good point... it's missing the final step of requesting a token and dealing with the callback containing that token. I added this:

A successful sign-on sets `isLoginSuccessful` to `true`. Your code then aquires a token from the response by calling `response.exchangeCode()`. The following code shows the singleton delegate function called that's called with the token:

```swift
extension SignInController: IDXClientDelegate {
    // Delegate method sent after a token is exchanged.
    public func idx(client: IDXClient, didReceive token: Token) {
        // Inform the UI that sign-on is successful
    }
    ...
}
```

Reviewer: sp.
Your code then ACQUIRES a token

Author: Nice catch. I also modified as acquires seems like an odd choice of word. This change will be in the next commit:

> A successful sign-on sets `isLoginSuccessful` to `true`. Your code then requests a token from the server by calling `response.exchangeCode()`. The following code shows the singleton delegate function called that's called with the returned token:

>**Note:** The examples in this guide use Swift 5, SwiftUI, and a target of iOS 15 or later.

> The examples in this guide manage the sign-on flow using a singleton class (`SignInController`). The class handles asynchronous responses from the SDK by implementing the delegate functions of the `IDXClientDelegate` protocol. The SDK also provides completion handlers and Swift Concurrency (`async/await`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The examples in this guide manage the sign-in flow using a singleton class (`SignInController`). The class handles asynchronous responses from the SDK by implementing the delegate functions of the `IDXClientDelegate` protocol. The SDK also provides completion handlers and Swift Concurrency (`async/await`).
```

Author: Changed all occurrences of sign-on to sign-in. Will be in the next commit

> The SwiftUI portions pass state information using multiple bindings, consider using more robust ways of sharing and updating data in production apps. For more information, see the [Apple developer documentation for state and data flow in SwiftUI](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/state-and-data-flow/).

Reviewer 2: cross reference/link wording is the use of just "See" and not "for more information" unless it's unclear what information the link is taking the reader to - then provide "for more information on blah blah blah"

```suggestion
The SwiftUI portions pass state information using multiple bindings, consider using more robust ways of sharing and updating data in production apps. See the [Apple developer documentation for state and data flow in SwiftUI](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/state-and-data-flow/).
```

Author: It's my Apple DevPubs finger memory where "For more information, see" was the standard. Fixed and in the next commit.

> ### 1: Display the initial sign-on UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1: Display the initial sign-in UI
```

Author: next commit.

Enable the user to start the sign-in flow, such as presenting a Sign In button or a form with fields for a username and password (you won't use those values until step 3 when you [authenticate the user credentials](#_3-authenticate-the-user-credentials)).

> ### 2: Start the sign-on flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2: Start the sign-in flow
```

Author: in next commit

Initialize the SDK client and request the initial server response after the user starts the sign-in process.

This code also sets the caller as the delegate for asynchronous callbacks from the SDK:

```swift
// Initialize the SDK client using a Configuration object loaded previously.
IDXClient.start(with: configuration) { (client, error) in
    guard let client = client else {
		self.finish(with: error)
		return
	}

	self.client = client

    // Set this object as the delegate for asynchronous calls.
	client.delegate = self

	// Request the first response from the Okta org.
	client.resume()
}
```

The call to `IDX.start(with:)` takes a single parameter of type `IDXClient.IDXClientConfiguration`. It contains the configuration information for your Okta org, and is usually initialized from an `Okta.plist` file. The call to `client.resume()` requests the first response of the sign-sequence.

### 3: Authenticate the user credentials

> The SDK uses a `Response` object to represent the server request for the current sign-on step. It contains a collection of remediations (`Remedation`) that specify the type of step, any general messages, and a nested collection of forms (`Remedation.Form`) containing fields (`Remedation.Form.Field`) that represent the various elements of the UI, such as an entry field with a label. Completing a step usually requires setting the value of one or more fields. The remediation is then sent back to the server with the updated values by calling `proceed()`. The server processes the values and then sends the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SDK uses a `Response` object to represent the server request for the current sign-in step. It contains a collection of remediations (`Remedation`) that specify the type of step, any general messages, and a nested collection of forms (`Remedation.Form`) containing fields (`Remedation.Form.Field`) that represent the various elements of the UI, such as an entry field with a label. Completing a step usually requires setting the value of one or more fields. The remediation is then sent back to the server with the updated values by calling `proceed()`. The server processes the values and then sends the next step.
```

Author: in next commit

> The kind of sign-on step is represented by the `type` property of the remediation. In this step the server is requesting the username and password, an `.identify` remediation type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The kind of sign-in step is represented by the `type` property of the remediation. In this step the server is requesting the username and password, an `.identify` remediation type.
```

Author: in next commit

> The SDK calls the `idx(client: response:)` delegate function with the server response that specifies the next step. This code first checks for a successful sign-on and for other conditions, and then uses a `switch` statement to handle the different types of remediation that are part of a Google Authenticator enrollment flow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SDK calls the `idx(client: response:)` delegate function with the server response that specifies the next step. This code first checks for a successful sign-in flow and for other conditions, and then uses a `switch` statement to handle the different types of remediation that are part of a Google Authenticator enrollment flow:
```

Author: changed sign-on to sign-in previously. Added "flow". In the next commit.

    guard let remediation = currentResponse?.remediations.first else {
        // Handle the error.
        return
    }

    // Check for messages, such as entering an incorrect code.
    if let message = response.messages.allMessages.first {
        // Inform the view model to display the message.
        return
    }

    // Handle the different sign-in steps (remediations) for a policy.
    switch remediation.type {

    // Username and password, though password may be separate; see the next case.
    case .identify:
        handleIdentify(remediation)

        // Request a password or a passcode, such as one from Google Authenticator.
        // Identity-first policies request the password separately.
    case .challengeAuthenticator:
        handleChallenge(remediation)

        // Display a list of authenticators.
    case .selectAuthenticatorEnroll:
        handleSelectAuthenticatorToEnroll(remediation)

    // Enroll in an Authenticator
    case .enrollAuthenticator:
        handleEnrollAuthenticator(remediation)

    default:
        // Handle the case of an unrecognized step.
        // Note, there are several more types of remediations.
    }
}
```

> The `handleIdentify(remediation:)` function updates the username and password fields in the remediation, and then calls `remediation.proceed()` which both sends the updated remediation to the server and requests the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `handleIdentify(remediation:)` function updates the username and password fields in the remediation, and then calls `remediation.proceed()` that sends the updated remediation to the server and requests the next step.
```

Author: next commit

```swift
func handleIdentify(_ remediation: Remediation) {
    // Update the values in the remediation object and go to the next step.
    remediation["identifier"]?.value = username
    remediation["credentials.passcode"]?.value = password
    remediation.proceed()
}
```

Some types of policies ask for the password in a separate step using a `.challengeAuthenticator` remediation type. The `handleChallege(remediation:)` function sets the password and calls `proceed()`:

```swift
// Sometimes the password is requested in a separate step.
func handleChallenge(_ remediation: Remediation) {
    guard let authenticator = remediation.authenticators.first else {
        finish(with: .unexpectedAuthenticator)
        return
    }

    let type = authenticator.type
    switch type {
    case .password:
        remediation["credentials.passcode"]?.value = password
        remediation.proceed()

    default:
        // Handle the case of an unknown authenticator.
        return
    }
}

```

> >**Note:** The response from the server specifies either the next step, an error, or a message, such as an incorrect code. The code that handles the response may need to show different UI, depending on the step. The `IDXClientDelegate` protocol includes two other functions: `idx(client:didReceive<Token>:)` handles receiving a sign-in token, and   `idx(client:didReceive<Error>:)` handles errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**Note:** The response from the server specifies either the next step, an error, or a message, such as an incorrect code. The code that handles the response may need to show a different UI, depending on the step. The `IDXClientDelegate` protocol includes two other functions: `idx(client:didReceive<Token>:)` that handles receiving a sign-in token, and `idx(client:didReceive<Error>:)` that handles errors.
```

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

### 4: Display a list of authenticators available for enrollment

After verifying the username and password, the server sends a remediation of type `.selectAuthenticatorEnroll` that contains the possible authenticators. The list of choices are in the `options` property of a field with `name` set to `"authenticator"` in the remediation `forms` property.

> The display name of an authenticator is in the `label` property of the field. Use this name to build your selection UI. For an example of using `label`, see the code that displays the the `Picker` in the code for `AuthenticatorSelectionView` later in this step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The display name of an authenticator is in the `label` property of the field. Use this name to build your selection UI. For an example of using `label`, see the code that displays the `Picker` in the code for `AuthenticatorSelectionView` later in this step.
```

Author: Nice catch. Fixed in the next commit.

> When the user selects an option, set the `selectedOption` property of the field containing the options (the one with the `name` `"authenticator"`) to the field containing the selected option. Call `proceed()` on the remediation once the user has finalized their choice to send the information and request the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the user selects an option, set the `selectedOption` property of the field that contains the options (the one with the `name` `"authenticator"`) to the field that contains the selected option. Call `proceed()` on the remediation after the user finalizes their choice to send the information and request the next step.
```

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

```swift
typealias AuthenticatorOptions = (optionSelectorField: Remediation.Form.Field,
                                  optionFields: [Remediation.Form.Field],
                                  selectedField: Remediation.Form.Field?)

func authenticatorOptions() -> AuthenticatorOptions? {
    guard let fields = currentRemediation?.form.fields,
          let selectorField = fields.filter({ $0.name == "authenticator"}).first,
          let options = selectorField.options,
          options.count > 0 else {
              return nil
          }
    return (selectorField, options, selectorField.selectedOption)
}

```

The function that handles the remediation type checks that there's at least one option:

```swift
func handleSelectAuthenticatorToEnroll(_ remediation: Remediation) {
    guard let optionsInfo = authenticatorOptions(),
          optionsInfo.optionFields.count > 0 else {
              finish(with: .unexpectedAuthenticator)
              return
          }

    // Tell the caller to present a UI for choosing an authenticator.
}
```

> Use the information returned by these utility functions to populate a UI for selecting an authenticator.If there are no options or some other issue, present an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the information returned by these utility functions to populate a UI for selecting an authenticator. If there are no options or some other issue, present an error.
```

Author: Another nice catch. Fixed in the next commit.

> One way to do this is building a picker using the results of the `authenticatorOptions()` utility function. For example, the following SwiftUI code displays the options using a `Picker` in a `Form`. In the code `SignInController` is the singleton that manages the sign-on flow. The view model uses a completion handler to receive results from the controller. The `.success` result type for this completion handler is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One way to do this is building a picker using the results of the `authenticatorOptions()` utility function. For example, the following SwiftUI code displays the options using a `Picker` in a `Form`. In the code `SignInController` is the singleton that manages the sign-in flow. The view model uses a completion handler to receive results from the controller. The `.success` result type for this completion handler is:
```

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

`typealias SuccessResultType = (token: Token?, message: IDXClient.Message?)`

> You may receive multiple enrollment requests during the sign-on flow when a policy includes more than one authenticator. When the policy allows the user to skip enrolling in additional authenticators the server returns at least one remediation with a `type` of `Remediation.RemediationType.skip`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may receive multiple enrollment requests during the sign-in flow when a policy includes more than one authenticator. When the policy allows the user to skip enrolling in additional authenticators, the server returns at least one remediation with a `type` of `Remediation.RemediationType.skip`.
```

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

            message = nil
            switch result {
            case .success(let result):
                if let token = result.token {
                    // Succesful sign in
                    signedIn = true
                    showingSignIn = false
                } else if let message = result.message {
                    // Show a message on this form.
                    self.message = message.message
                } else {
                    // Handle moving to a new type of form.
                    currentState = SignInController.shared!.currentRemediation!.type
                }

            case .failure(let error):
                // Handle the error
            }
        }

        let signInController = SignInController.shared?
        if skip {
            // Call a utility function for skipping the selection step.
            signInController.skipAuthenticatorSelection(completion: completion)
        } else {
            // Select an authentictor and request the next step.
            signInController.selectAuthenticator(authenticator: selectedOption,
                                                 completion: completion)
        }
    }
}

```

> These screenshots show selecting Google Authenticator using the form. The first displays the picker with the label and no selected item. The next screen shows the generated list of choices shown after tapping the picker. The final screen shows the picker with Google Authenticator selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These screenshots show how to select Google Authenticator using the form. The first displays the picker with the label and no selected item. The next screen shows the generated list of choices shown after tapping the picker. The final screen shows the picker with Google Authenticator selected.
```

Author: The screenshots don't show how to select, they show the different states during the selection: form with a Picker, the picker list that shows after the user taps the picker (hence the "Back" button), and then the original picker with Google Authenticator chosen. The upcoming commit changes the first sentence to:

> These screenshots show the different UI states for the `Picker` as the user selects Google Authenticator.

<div class="common-image-format">

![The authentication selection picker form.](/img/authenticators/ios-authenticators-google-choose-authenticator.png "A series of three screenshots with a form for selecting an authenticator. The first shows the picker with no value, the second shows the list of choices in a new form, and the third shows the picker displaying the name of the chosen authenticator.")

</div>

> The UI updates the sign-on controller with the selected authenticator by calling `selectAuthenticator(authenticator:completion)`, or `skipAuthenticatorSelection(completion:)` if the user choses to skip enrolling in additional authenticators.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The UI updates the sign-in controller with the selected authenticator by calling `selectAuthenticator(authenticator:completion)`, or `skipAuthenticatorSelection(completion:)` if the user choses to skip enrolling in additional authenticators.
```

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

```swift
public func skipAuthenticatorSelection(completion:@escaping (Result<SuccessResultType, LoginError>) -> Void) {
    // Set the current view model completion handler which is
    // called when recieving a response from the SDK.
    self.completion = completion

    guard let skipRemediation = currentResponse?.remediations.filter({ $0.type == .skip }).first else {
        // Handle the error
        return
    }

    // Request the next step.
    skipRemediation.proceed()
}

public func selectAuthenticator(authenticator: Remediation.Form.Field?, completion:@escaping (Result<SuccessResultType, LoginError>) -> Void) {
    // Set the selected authenticator.
    self.completion = completion

    guard let selectorFields = authenticatorOptions() else {
              self.finish(with: .cannotProceed)
              return
          }

    // Update the remediation and send it to the server,
    // requesting the next step.
    selectorFields.optionSelectorField.selectedOption = authenticator
    currentRemediation!.proceed()
}
```

### 5: Display the shared secret, QR Code, and request the code

> After selecting the authenticator, the server sends an enrollment request in a remediation of type `.enrollAuthenticator`. Enrolling uses a secret key shared between Okta and Google Authenticator that's used to generate and verify the generated time-based one-time passcodes (TOTP).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the user selects the authenticator, the server sends an enrollment request in a remediation of type `.enrollAuthenticator`. Enrolling uses a secret key shared between Okta and Google Authenticator that's used to generate and verify the generated time-based one-time passcodes (TOTP).
```

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

The remediation includes the shared secret as both a QR Code and as text. It also includes a request to enter a Google Authenticator code after enrollment.

> The sign-on controller code for `handleEnrollAuthenticator(remediation:)` works for many different authenticators because the `form` property of the remediation contains the information required to build the UI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sign-in controller code for `handleEnrollAuthenticator(remediation:)` works for many different authenticators because the `form` property of the remediation contains the information required to build the UI:
```

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

```swift
func handleEnrollAuthenticator(_ remediation: Remediation) {
    // Tell the caller to present a UI for enrolling in Google Authenticator.

}
```

> The collection of authenticators related to the current request are in the `authenticators` property of the remediation. Each one is an instance of the `Authenticator` class which includes an identifier in the `key` property and a name for display in the UI in the `displayName` property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The collection of authenticators related to the current request are in the `authenticators` property of the remediation. Each one is an instance of the `Authenticator` class that includes an identifier in the `key` property and a name to display in the UI in the `displayName` property.
```

Author: Fixed I the next commit.

              let authenticator = remediation.authenticators.filter({ $0.key == "google_otp"}).first,
              let capability = authenticator.capabilities.filter({$0 is Capability.OTP}).first as? Capability.OTP,
              let qrCode = capability.image,
              let sharedSecret = capability.sharedSecret else {
                  return nil
              }

        return (authenticator.displayName, qrCode, sharedSecret)
    }
```

The model and view information for the OTP entry field are nested in the forms of the remediation. First find a field with the `name` property set to `"credentials"` in the `form` property of the remediation. Then in the `form` property of that field, find the field with the `name` set to `"passcode"`:

```swift
typealias AuthenticatorCode = (codeField: Remediation.Form.Field,
                               entryField: Remediation.Form.Field)

    func authenticatorCodeField() -> AuthenticatorCode? {
    guard let codeField = currentRemediation?["credentials"],
          let entryField = currentRemediation?["credentials.passcode"] else {
              return nil
          }
        return (codeField, entryField)
    }

```

> Set the `value` property of the  entry field, the one with a name `"passcode"` to the OTP entered by the user, and then submit the remediation to continue to the next step. This is the utility function from the sign-on manager:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the `value` property of the entry field, the one with a name `"passcode"` to the OTP entered by the user, and then submit the remediation to continue to the next step. This is the utility function from the sign-in manager:
```

Author: Fixed I the next commit.

                    showingSignIn = false
                } else if let message = result.message {
                    // Show a message on this form.
                    self.message = message.message
                } else {
                    currentState = SignInController.shared!.currentRemediation!.type
                }

            case .failure(let error):
                // Handle the error
            }
        }
    }
}
```

The following screenshot shows the form displaying the shared secret used for enrollment in addition to the OTP entry field.

<div class="common-image-format">

![Display a QR Code and shared secret.](/img/authenticators/ios-authenticators-google-enroll.png "An app displaying a form containing the QR Code, shared secret, code entry field, and continue and cancel buttons.")

</div>

There are three possible results after sending the OTP to the server:

- Sending the correct OTP signs the user in.
- Sending an incorrect OTP results in another `.enrollAuthenticator` response with a message indicating that the code doesn't match. The UI code handles that case by displaying a form that includes the message.
- An error, such as a disconnected server.

> A successful sign-on sets `isLoginSuccessful` to `true`. Your code then requests a token from the server by calling `response.exchangeCode()`. The following code shows the singleton delegate function called that's called with the returned token:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A successful sign-in sets `isLoginSuccessful` to `true`. Your code then requests a token from the server by calling `response.exchangeCode()`. The following code shows the singleton delegate function that's called with the returned token:
```

Author: Fixed I the next commit.
